   Cloudera's Distribution for Apache Hadoop (CDH) 3 Beta 4 Released

   Cloudera is happy to announce the release of Beta 4 of
   version 3 of our Distribution for Apache Hadoop (CDH3 Beta 4).

   == Core Hadoop, HDFS, and MapReduce ==

   As the final beta in the CDH3 series, the major changes in this release
   have focused on stability, security, and scalability.

   Stability and bug fixes:

   CDH3 Beta 4 fixes several important bugs in both MapReduce and HDFS based
   on our experiences deploying CDH3 in production environments as well as
   important backports from the upstream Apache project. This release also 
   includes several improvements that ease the diagnosis of configuration 
   problems and simplify the configuration of permissions for local storage 
   directories.

   Security:

   CDH3 Beta 4 includes a fix for one major security vulnerability that was
   known in Beta 3. Cloudera encourages users running in a secured environment
   to upgrade as soon as possible.

   HDFS now also includes support for the "sticky bit" as found in POSIX
   file permissions. When set on a directory, files and directories within
   that directory may only be deleted or renamed by the item's owner, the
   directory's owner, or the superuser. Cloudera recommends that any 
   directories currently set to mode 777 (eg /tmp/) be chmodded to mode 1777 
   to include the sticky bit.

   Scalability:

   CDH3 Beta 4 merges many of the scalability improvements contributed by
   Yahoo! in their 0.20.100 branch of Apache Hadoop. This includes a reduction
   in the amount of memory required by the NameNode, improvements to MapReduce
   scheduling throughput, and more scalable RPC servers.


   == New Component Versions ==

   CDH3 Beta 4 updates several components to new upstream version numbers:

   HBase: Updated from 0.89.20100924 to 0.90.1. This new release continues
   to focus on stability, but also includes a few important performance
   improvements and an experimental feature to reduce the frequency of
   lengthy garbage collection pauses.

   ZooKeeper: Updated from 3.3.1 to 3.3.2. This is a bug fix release that
   addresses several important bugs, including two fixes for connection
   cleanup in clients, and one server side thread leak.

   Flume: Updated from 0.9.1 to 0.9.3. This release broadens support to
   include Flume nodes on Windows machines, exposes in-depth metric
   information via a JSON interface, improves performance of tail and exec
   sources, enables support for Apache Avro based RPCs, and patches
   issues related to multi-master configurations, output format plugins
   and manual failover chains.

   Pig: Updated from 0.7.0 to 0.8.0. This release includes new features such
   as scalar types, custom partitioners, Python UDFs, a new unit testing
   framework for Pig scripts, better statistics on Pig jobs, and support
   for integrating custom MapReduce jobs into a Pig flow.

   Hive: Updated from 0.5.0 to 0.7.0-rc0. This release includes important 
   bug fixes as well as new features and performance improvements. These 
   include support for views, multiple databases, and dynamic partitions,
   automatic merging of small files, new and improved join strategies, storage
   handlers, support for local execution modes, archiving, and significant
   improvements to the JDBC driver.

   Sqoop: Updated from 1.1.0 to 1.2.0. This release includes important bug
   fixes as well as some improvements and new features, including support
   for Oracle catalog views, the ability to load command line options from
   configuration files, and several other usability improvements.

   Oozie: Updated from 2.2.1 to 2.3.0. This release includes several usability 
   improvements and bug fixes. New features include Oozie sharelib and Oozie
   HTTP Kerberos authentication. Oozie sharelib bundles Hadoop streaming, Pig,
   Hive and Sqoop JARs simplifying workflow application deployment. Oozie HTTP
   Kerberos authentication provides secure authentication for Oozie clients and
   the Oozie web-console. Oozie examples have been rewritten making them simpler.

   Whirr: Updated from 0.1.0 to 0.3.0. This release includes support for Apache
   HBase, improvements in startup time, and recipes for common configurations.

   Hue: Updated from 1.1 to 1.2. The 1.2.0 is a minor release, largely
   focused on bug fixes and compatibility with the release of Cloudera's
   Distribution for Apache Hadoop 3, Beta 4.

   == Upgrading ==

   *** If you are upgrading from a release of CDH prior to CDH3 Beta 3, please
   read the release notes for the Beta 3 release as well as those
   for CDH3 Beta 4.

   - This release changes the wire format for Hadoop's RPC mechanism.
   Thus, you must upgrade any existing hadoop client software at the
   same time as you upgrade the server.

   - In CDH3 Beta 4 it's important that, if you set mapred.child.ulimit, it
   must be more than 2 times the heap size value set in mapred.child.java.opts. 
   For example, if you set a 1G heap, set mapred.child.ulimit to 2.5GB. Child 
   processes are now guaranteed to fork at least once, and the fork momentarily  
   requires twice the overhead in virtual memory.    
